CX pulumi security posture (#1996)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/pulumi-security-posture/index.md

<!--more-->

## Cloud Security Posture

AWS likes to talk about a [Shared Responsibility Model](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/), their friendly way of saying, “we’ve got our stuff covered and if you’re compromised, it’s almost certainly your fault.”  They have built up practices and recommendations like the AWS Well Architected Program; pillars of architecture philosophy that give you your best chances to securely use their resources (following these recommendations is easy with Crosswalk for AWS from Pulumi).  Increasing high profile attacks against private and open source software supply chains has developers increasingly on high alert and conscious of incorporating more Sec into their DevOps.

Risks associated with maintaining a good Cloud Security Posture extend to your Infrastructure as Code with Pulumi and it’s important to leverage the features and capabilities of the Pulumi Platform along with good industry practices to secure your code, configuration and secrets.

## Pulumi’s Hierarchy

Pulumi has three levels to consider access for: Users, Teams and Organizations.

> [Users](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/accounts/#profile) are tied to personal identities often with an Identity Provider and should be used wherever a human is using Pulumi.  They should not be used for any systems, tools or pipeline based provisioning.

Author: Dropped

[Teams](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/teams/) are groups of Users within an Organization with specific permissions to Stacks.  Consider using these to break up access to environments such as Dev, Staging and Production.  You should look to mirror your code repository or IAM teams/groups as much as possible.

[Organizations](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/) are a space for you to collaborate on shared projects and stacks.  You may have multiple Cloud Accounts from a single cloud provider or multiple cloud provider Accounts tied to an Organization in any combination.  It’s recommended that you segment Organizations and Cloud Accounts to limit access and the “blast radius” of security or financial events that may occur within them.

## Security Best Practices with Pulumi

The following recommendations should help you get started and prepare you to scale your company, application and cloud engineering team long term.

## Manage Federated Identity

> Connect your user and Pulumi Orgs with an [Identity Provider](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#organization-identity-providers) such as [Github](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#github-identity-provider), [Gitlab](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#gitlab-identity-provider) or [BitBucket](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#bitbucket-identity-provider), your [Single Sign On (SSO)](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#saml-single-sign-on-sso) system and/or another System for Cross-Domain Identity Management (SCIM).  Your code repositories hold your Infrastructure as Code crown jewels, and most organizations are motivated to keep access tightly controlled.  SSO improves this process across tools and puts more control into your organization’s hands.  [SCIM](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/scim/) enables you to manage your users and groups centrally in your Identity Provider (IdP) and then synchronize those users and groups to the Pulumi Service.  Leveraging your existing onboarding and offboarding process will help limit the risk of bad actors in Pulumi itself.

Author: Done

## Write the Code

Manual process is error prone and difficult to audit, iterate and improve on.  If you’ve created manual resources, consider [importing](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/changes-to-import/) them to Pulumi programs.

## Tags your Stacks

We have previously covered [Tag Policies](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/automatically-enforcing-aws-resource-tagging-policies/) as a best practice for the Cloud Resources themselves, but you can also tag your Pulumi Stacks to help organize and visualize your application resources in logical groupings that will help you assess, respond and automate incident remediation. Here are two examples of using Pulumi’s own Pulumi Provider to tag your Stacks automatically: in [python](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/blob/master/aws-py-stackreference/team/__main__.py#L8-L13) and in [typescript](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/blob/master/aws-ts-stackreference/team/index.ts#L17-L22).

## Deploy from Pipelines

> Automate every step of your typical deployment process for anything beyond basic local development from a CI/CD pipeline or triggered by web services. If a human is in the loop, consider their involvement to be limited to the approvals process if needed. Better still is to proactively launch approved resources with Pulumi Multi Language Components and CrossGuard.

Reviewer: - `Pulumi Multi Language Components`: I picked up somewhere (but can't find it anymore where) that the preferred naming is `Pulumi Packages`
- `CrossGuard`: add a link to our website, given it is the first occurrence to it.

Author: 1. Updated Pulumi Multi Language Components with Pulumi Packages and hyperlinked it
2. Added the link to cross guard

## Log Everything

Track key system events such user and pipeline activity, attempted and restricted activity, and changes to identity and access controls. Use Pulumi Audit logs to simplify this process out of the box.  If applicable, we would suggest [automatically exporting Pulumi Audit Logs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/audit-logs/#automated-export) to your systems.

## Use Tokens

Organization Access Tokens, Team Access Tokens and Personal Access Tokens securely connect your automation pipelines and development environments with Pulumi without the risks of association user/password combinations.  Machines talk to Pulumi with Tokens of various types and it is always advisable to use Tokens over Users where possible. More on the types of tokens is below.

> ## Organizational Access Tokens

Reviewer: Should this heading be a level deeper under `Use Tokens`, as well as the following headings for Team & Personal access tokens?

Author: Made it a deeper level along with Team & Personal Tokens

---

> title: "Pulumi Security Posture"

Reviewer 2: Suggest a title like "Using Pulumi Securely" since "Pulumi Security Posture" could lead the user to believe that the article is about our security posture as a company.

Author: Updated the title

date: 2022-10-06

meta_desc: Pulumi Security Posture.  Organization Access Token, Team Access Token, Teams, and Managed Federated Identity

meta_image: meta.png

authors:
    - tushar-shah

tags:
    - security
    - pulumi-enterprise

---

> Cloud’s greatest strength and weakness is the proliferation of a massive number of services globally. In order to adequately assess and mitigate the inherent risks for your company, your customers, and your employees, Cloud Architects are typically responsible for a massive surface area of potential endpoints and vectors of attack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cloud computing’s greatest strength and weakness is the proliferation of a massive number of services globally. In order to adequately assess and mitigate the inherent risks for your company, your customers, and your employees, Cloud Architects are typically responsible for a massive surface area of potential endpoints and vectors of attack.
```

<!--more-->

## Cloud Security Posture

> AWS likes to talk about a [Shared Responsibility Model](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/), their friendly way of saying, “we’ve got our stuff covered and if you’re compromised, it’s almost certainly your fault.”  They have built up practices and recommendations like the AWS Well Architected Program; pillars of architecture philosophy that give you your best chances to securely use their resources (following these recommendations is easy with [Crosswalk for AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/crosswalk/aws/) from Pulumi).  Increasing high profile attacks against private and open source software supply chains has developers increasingly on high alert and conscious of incorporating more Sec into their DevOps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AWS likes to talk about a [Shared Responsibility Model](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/), their friendly way of saying, “we’ve got our stuff covered and if you’re compromised, it’s almost certainly your fault.”  They have built up practices and recommendations like the AWS Well Architected Framework; pillars of architecture philosophy that give you your best chances to securely use their resources (following these recommendations is easy with [Crosswalk for AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/crosswalk/aws/) from Pulumi).  Increasing high profile attacks against private and open source software supply chains has developers increasingly on high alert and conscious of incorporating more Sec into their DevOps.
```

I _think_ the Framework are the rules and the Program is for partners to get certified.

> AWS likes to talk about a [Shared Responsibility Model](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/), their friendly way of saying, “we’ve got our stuff covered and if you’re compromised, it’s almost certainly your fault.”  They have built up practices and recommendations like the AWS Well Architected Framework; pillars of architecture philosophy that give you your best chances to securely use their resources (following these recommendations is easy with [Crosswalk for AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/crosswalk/aws/) from Pulumi).  Increasing high profile attacks against private and open source software supply chains has developers increasingly on high alert and conscious of incorporating more Sec into their DevOps.

Reviewer 3: @tusharshahrs Would you mind going through and replacing all of your `https://www.pulumi.com/` links to use Hugo `relref` shortcodes? Like this (and be careful to remove any trailing slashes as you do so)? Thank you! 

```suggestion
AWS likes to talk about a [Shared Responsibility Model](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/), their friendly way of saying, “we’ve got our stuff covered and if you’re compromised, it’s almost certainly your fault.”  They have built up practices and recommendations like the AWS Well Architected Framework; pillars of architecture philosophy that give you your best chances to securely use their resources (following these recommendations is easy with [Crosswalk for AWS]({{< relref "/docs/guides/crosswalk/aws" >}}) from Pulumi).  Increasing high profile attacks against private and open source software supply chains has developers increasingly on high alert and conscious of incorporating more Sec into their DevOps.
```

Author: Updated the urls

> Risks associated with maintaining a good Cloud Security Posture extend to your Infrastructure as Code with Pulumi and it’s important to leverage the features and capabilities of the Pulumi Platform along with good industry practices to secure your code, configuration and secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Risks associated with maintaining a good cloud security posture extend to your infrastructure as code with Pulumi and it’s important to leverage the features and capabilities of the Pulumi platform along with good industry practices to secure your code, configuration and secrets.
```

[Teams](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/teams/) are groups of Users within an Organization with specific permissions to Stacks.  Consider using these to break up access to environments such as Dev, Staging and Production.  You should look to mirror your code repository or IAM teams/groups as much as possible.

[Organizations](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/) are a space for you to collaborate on shared projects and stacks.  You may have multiple Cloud Accounts from a single cloud provider or multiple cloud provider Accounts tied to an Organization in any combination.  It’s recommended that you segment Organizations and Cloud Accounts to limit access and the “blast radius” of security or financial events that may occur within them.

## Security Best Practices with Pulumi

The following recommendations should help you get started and prepare you to scale your company, application and cloud engineering team long term.

## Manage Federated Identity

> Connect your user and Pulumi Orgs with an [Identity Provider](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#organization-identity-providers) such as [Github](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#github-identity-provider), [Gitlab](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#gitlab-identity-provider) or [BitBucket](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#bitbucket-identity-provider), your [Single Sign On (SSO)](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#saml-single-sign-on-sso) system and/or another [System for Cross-Domain Identity Management](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/scim/) (SCIM).  Your code repositories hold your Infrastructure as Code crown jewels, and most organizations are motivated to keep access tightly controlled.  SSO improves this process across tools and puts more control into your organization’s hands.  SCIM enables you to manage your users and groups centrally in your Identity Provider (IdP) and then synchronize those users and groups to the Pulumi Service.  Leveraging your existing onboarding and offboarding process will help limit the risk of bad actors in Pulumi itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connect your user and Pulumi orgs with an [Identity Provider](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#organization-identity-providers) such as [Github](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#github-identity-provider), [Gitlab](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#gitlab-identity-provider) or [BitBucket](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#bitbucket-identity-provider), your [Single Sign On (SSO)](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/organizations/#saml-single-sign-on-sso) system and/or another [System for Cross-Domain Identity Management](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/scim/) (SCIM).  Your code repositories hold your Infrastructure as Code crown jewels, and most organizations are motivated to keep access tightly controlled.  SSO improves this process across tools and puts more control into your organization’s hands.  SCIM enables you to manage your users and groups centrally in your Identity Provider (IdP) and then synchronize those users and groups to the Pulumi Service.  Leveraging your existing onboarding and offboarding process will help limit the risk of bad actors in Pulumi itself.
```

Reviewer 2: Could use a little more explanation of what you mean by "crown jewels" since these repos should definitely not contain secrets.

Author: Removed `crown jewels` wording

## Build Pulumi Teams

> [Teams](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/teams/#creating-a-team) improve on basic Role Based Access Control for Administrators and Users by allowing you to group users and their access to specific Stacks in your Organization.  For example, a team called ProductionReadOnly could be created and scoped so that all Members have only limited access to read the Production Stacks, while another team, ProductionAdmins, would retain full privileges to those stacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Teams](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/teams/#creating-a-team) improve on basic role-based access control (RBAC) for administrators and users by allowing you to group users and their access to specific stacks in your organization.  For example, a team called ProductionReadOnly could be created and scoped so that all members have only limited access to read the production stacks, while another team, ProductionAdmins, would retain full privileges to those stacks.
```

> ## Write the Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Import Manually Created Resources
```

> Manual process is error prone and difficult to audit, iterate and improve on.  If you’ve created manual resources, consider [importing](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/changes-to-import/) them to Pulumi programs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manually created cloud resources are error prone, difficult to audit, iterate and improve on.  If you’ve created manual resources, consider [importing](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/changes-to-import/) them to Pulumi programs.
```

## Tag your Stacks

> We have previously covered [Tag Policies](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/automatically-enforcing-aws-resource-tagging-policies/) as a best practice for the Cloud Resources themselves, but you can also tag your Pulumi Stacks to help organize and visualize your application resources in logical groupings that will help you assess, respond and automate incident remediation. Here are two examples of using Pulumi’s own Pulumi Provider to tag your Stacks automatically: in [python](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/blob/master/aws-py-stackreference/team/__main__.py#L8-L13) and in [typescript](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/blob/master/aws-ts-stackreference/team/index.ts#L17-L22).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have previously covered [Tag Policies](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/automatically-enforcing-aws-resource-tagging-policies/) as a best practice for the Cloud Resources themselves, but you can also tag your Pulumi Stacks to help organize and visualize your application resources in logical groupings that will help you assess, respond and automate incident remediation. Here are two examples of using Pulumi’s own Pulumi Provider to tag your Stacks automatically: in [python](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/blob/master/aws-py-stackreference/team/__main__.py#L8-L13) and in [TypeScript](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/blob/master/aws-ts-stackreference/team/index.ts#L17-L22).
```

## Deploy from Pipelines

> Automate every step of your typical deployment process for anything beyond basic local development from a CI/CD pipeline or triggered by web services. If a human is in the loop, consider their involvement to be limited to the approvals process if needed. Better still is to proactively launch approved resources with [Pulumi Packages](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/pulumi-packages/) and [CrossGuard](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/crossguard/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Automate every step of your deployment process for anything beyond local development by creating CI/CD pipelines. Manual approval steps in your pipeline should be avoided. Consider creating automated checks to ensure your infrastructure is created only with approved [Pulumi Packages](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/pulumi-packages/) and automatically ensure your infrastructure is in compliance by using [CrossGuard](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/crossguard/).
```
